It's not obvious how to install new modules or run external scripts from within Rhino Grasshopper's Python console. I'm still figuring out how to do this myself, so for now, this just consists of my disorganized notes. As I work out solutions, I'll flesh this out into a more organized tutorial.

- Rhino uses IronPython, which doesn't go past Python 2.7. This means that, in order to use packages like NumPy that are only being maintained for newer distributions of Python, we'll need to download older versions. For NumPy, this means using NumPy 1.6.2 rather than the newest version. Older versions of packages can sometimes be found on SourceForge.
- When Rhino is opened as a normal application (at least on MacOS), it doesn't have permission to read/write files in certain folders by default. The only solution I've found for this so far is to run the Rhino application as the root user, which can be accomplished by going to the directory `/Applications/Rhino 7.app/Contents/MacOS` and running `sudo ./Rhinoceros`. This strikes me as mildly dangerous, though, so I'm looking for a workaround.
  - Perhaps root privileges aren't needed if Rhino is just installed in a particular user's `Applications` folder, rather than the root `Applications` folder?
- Here's one way to run your own external scripts, but it feels a bit... wrong. Navigate to the directory `Library/Application Support/McNeel/Rhinoceros/7.0/scripts` (which is either located in `/Users/[YOUR USERNAME]` or the root directory, depending on where Rhino is located). Create a simple script entitled `helloworld.py` containing the line `print("hello world!")`. Then, in Grasshopper, add the line `import helloworld` to your code. You should see "hello world!" pop up in your console, as expected.
  - It seems like we should be able to use this to run external packages like NumPy by simply downloading their source code and copying it into this directory. However, most packages (NumPy included) require some additional setup that is usually taken care of automatically when you use `pip` to install Python packages. Can I use `pip` to setup *and* install the correct distributions external packages into this directory?
  - This strategy exhibits some strange and erratic behavior. Importing a file containing the line `print("hello world!")` prints "hello world" as expected, but trying to import a file with the lines `x = 1` and `print(x)` does nothing. Why on earth would this happen?
- Here's another possible hack that feels just as "dirty", but behaves more predictably. Go to the directory `Applications/Rhino 7.app/Contents/MacOS` (either in `/Users/[YOUR USERNAME]` or the root directory) and write a script called `test.py`, which say, consists of the line `print("testing 1 2 3")` or something more complicated. Then, in your GH Python script, you can use the line `exec(open("test.py").read())` to execute or import all classes from `test.py`.
  - Limitation: attempting to import modules such as NumPy within the script `test.py` using lines like `import numpy` doesn't work - it will just throw a "no module found" in GH, same as if you had tried to import it in the GH Python script. Weirdly, if you try just running `test.py` from the command line outside of GH, it imports NumPy without difficulties.
  - This may not seem that helpful since it doesn't help us import external modules. However, it does break through the barrier of only having access to a single Python script from the GH GUI. Using this trick, you can write lots of complicated, interdependent classes sorted nicely into many different Python scripts and import them all into GH with just a few lines of code. The catch: it has to be all your own code, and you can't use any modules that don't already work in GH.
